Draggable App Region explainer (#1134)
MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers: Draggable/explainer.md

  - [Current Property Behaviour](#current-property-behaviour)
  - [Sample Use Case](#sample-use-case)
  - [Stakeholder Feedback / Opposition](#stakeholder-feedback--opposition)
  - [Accessibility, Privacy, and Security Considerations](#accessibility-privacy-and-security-considerations)
  - [References \& acknowledgements](#references--acknowledgements)

## Introduction

The `-webkit-app-region` and `app-region` properties exist as a styling feature used primarily in desktop web applications to define draggable regions of a window. This is useful when applications recreate a custom title bar or title bar region, as it **allows users to click and drag the window to move it when the default OS window chrome is not present**.

This property is used by several technologies to move a window in the OS, including:
* [Web Apps through the WCO API](https://wicg.github.io/window-controls-overlay/)
* [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/custom-window-interactions#custom-draggable-regions)

The property is not currently standard, this leaves a gap on implementations that needs to be fixed. 

## Goals

* Standardize the `app-region` CSS property.

> * Allow a _standalone_ window to be moved by a user when no other platform UX is present.

Reviewer: nit - it took me a minute to understand what this means and might confuse other people. Suggest being more crispy with wording. Something like "Allowing _standalone_ app window to define draggable and non-draggable region and support scenarios such as custom title bar"

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>test</title>
    <link rel="manifest" href="manifest.json">
    <style>
        button {
            font-size: 1.5rem;
            animation-name: moveDown;
            animation-duration: 120s;
            animation-iteration-count: infinite;
            app-region: drag; /* <-------- APP-REGION */
        }

        @keyframes moveDown {
            from { margin-top: 0px; }
            to { margin-top: 600px;}
        }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
    <button title="should be draggable">
        Generic Beautiful Button
    </button>
    
</body>
</html>
```

In this example, the 'WCO' feature is enabled, hence the window has lost the meaningful area to be moved across the screen.

The (Generic Beautiful) button has the `app-region` set to `drag`. This button can how be used to drag the window around.

> Note: This is just an example to test the _current_ behaviour on elements that have animations. the `app-region` is generally used on emulated titlebars or other UX designed to let the end user move the window around.

### `app-region` and pointer events

> Current implementations of `app-region` **ignore pointer events**. Interactive elements inside an area defined with `app-region: drag` will require a `app-region: no-drag` to be interacted with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Current implementations of `app-region` **consume all pointer events**, even if they don't result in a drag. Interactive elements inside an area defined with `app-region: drag` will require a `app-region: no-drag` to be interacted with.
```

### Suppression of `app-region`

The `app-region` property applies to a DOM element, and allows it to become a point from where to drag and move a window. If this element's `visibility` is `hidden` or `collapsed`, or if the element is occluded by an element with a higher `z-index` then the window can't be dragged from that element.

> ### `app-region` and animations

Reviewer 2: Can we either broaden this section to include all modifications/suppressions (if they all fit nicely together), or add new sections to cover them?

I'm thinking about cases like the `app-region` property being dynamically changed mid-drag, or any of the things called out in the section above this.

Author: I will keep adding more use cases as they appear throughout the discussion of this feature.

> The property works and while the user continues to keep their pointer down, even of the animation has moved the element away from where that pointer is, they can continue with the window movement they started. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A drag operation started in an `app-region` continues so long as the user continues to keep their pointer down, even if an animation has moved the element away from where that pointer is.
```

```css
/* Custom titlebar style */
#titlebar {
    width: env(titlebar-area-width, 100%);
    height: env(titlebar-area-height, 32px);
    top: env(titlebar-area-y, 0px);
    left: env(titlebar-area-x, 0px);
    ...
    -webkit-app-region: drag;
    app-region: drag;
}

/*A search textbox inside the custom titlebar*/
#searchBox {
  app-region: no-drag; /* allows the textbox to be interacted with*/
}
```
## Stakeholder Feedback / Opposition
The process to standardize this feature was logged in an [issue #7017](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7017) in 2022. This explainer aims at restarting the conversation. 

Note that there is [positive](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/7017#issuecomment-1609114145) developer signals in the issue.

## Accessibility, Privacy, and Security Considerations

> There are no considerations at this time.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to call out how this does (or doesn't) impact accessibility. My initial thoughts would be that it doesn't block any existing operations, but I'm curious if work needs to be specified to make a custom title bar area present the same as a traditional title bar to an accessible user?

For security / open questions - how should this be restricted? Can it be in a shadow DOM? iframe? middle of the page?
  Continuing from that for Privacy - if the locations for a valid app-region are restricted by the browser, will the site be able to distinguish between a functioning/proper app-region and an invalid one? And if so, what kind of fingerprinting could this expose?

Author: I will expand on these questions. Need to check what happens when this is present in an iframe, for example..
